# Envelope Printer

This is my solution to my annual Christmas card printing problem. I have used a
number of solutions over the years, but every year I have to retool it. I do not
use a Word Processor very often and when I do I general find their mail merge
tools to be extremely horrible.

Anyway, my previous solution used a Google Apps script to generate my envelope.
It works, but I do not like the formatting available on Google Docs and there is
a
[bug](https://code.google.com/p/google-apps-script-issues/issues/detail?id=1612)
that makes working with images more difficult than I want to bother with working
around, if a work around is even possible. Docs Scripting also seems to change
from one year to the next, so I have to fix my scripts every year.

So, looking for another solution, I found [this
script](https://github.com/martine/envelope) (HT: @martine) for printing
envelopes by generating PDFs directly using the Cairo drawing library. Looked
like a good idea, but I do not especially like Python, so I wrote my own version
in Perl and made it configurable from an external set of files and am releasing
it here in case someone else finds it useful.

## Installation

This is only available from github. These are approximately the way I install
and use it.

    # Common to all
    git clone https://github.com/zostay/envelopes.git
    cd envelopes

    # On MacOS X, if you use MacPorts, you can install Cairo like this:
    port install cairo

    # On Ubuntu, you can do:
    apt-get install cairo

    # On Windows, you are on your own. Look here: http://cairographics.org/download/

    # Common to all again (assuming you have cpanm installed)
    cpanm Cairo Text::CSV_XS YAML

That is all. I tried the Homebrew version of Cairo first, but it seemed to
install incorrectly. The MacPorts package worked fine.

## Usage

Just to get a sample of what this looks like, run:

    ./envelopes settings.yml sendto.csv output.pdf

A file named `output.pdf` will be generated (if there are no errors reported)
and should contain a single sample envelope.

To generate your own envelopes you need to modify the `settings.yml` file with
your own envelope size and return address. You can tweak the settings in it to
modify the font used, the size of the return address and to address, and the
position of these on the envelope.

You may want to locate your own PNG file to use in the return address or just
delete the provided one (or remove the `return_png` setting in `settings.yml`)
if you do not want a picture on your envelope.

Finally, you will need a CSV file containing all the addresses. The file used is
formatted in 5 columns: name, address, city, state, zip. If your addresses are
formatted differently, you will just need to modify the program itself or
reformat your addresses.

Once you have your CSV file and settings setup, run command above with your
files and you are done.

## Copyright & License

Copyright 2014 Andrew Sterling Hanenkamp.  This software project is available
under the Artistic 2.0 license (or GPL). You may distribute or modify this code
under same terms as Perl itself. The image file provided with this program as a
sample is in the public domain and was retrieved from [pixaby.com](pixaby.com).
